---
layout: single
title:  "PM-CARES Its our Responsibility"
date:   2020-05-10 22:48:04 +0530
categories: IncomeTax
---
### PM CARES – Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations

It's a pleasant day on 24th March’20. As a dedicated and hardworking professional I woke early in the morning at 9.30 AM that day and still feeling drowsy, looking at lovely sun rise from my heavenly balcony. As a daily routine I started penning down to do list for the day after Janata curfew looking forward to meet my tight deadlines. The day went well but I have been observing unusual behaviour of people wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining distances from past few days. Everyone knows it's because of COVID-19. Initially we undermined the shackling spread of infection. But things changed dynamically & dramatically when WHO declared COVID-19 as pandemic and countries across globe declaring uncertain nation lockdown and travel bans to contain rapid spread of COVID infection. It shattered and contracted the economies without any bias, disrupted & closed businesses, people lost jobs and loved ones, Travels are banned, deserted streets, people thrown into extreme poverty. It humiliated and mocked at our achievements in science and medicine and has touched every part of human occupation & presence.

The developing and under developed nations are in dire need of huge economic resources to tackle the pandemic. And Nation like India with a population of more than 130 crore which is around 18% of world's population and which already has multidimensional problems like recession, poverty, illiteracy, mobs, unemployment, excess wisdom , communal crisis, internal disturbances and all types of fiscal and revenue deficits. It's really really essential to have huge resources to tackle such pandemic. It's a tough time for India as it has to take care of itself and its neighbour nations as India is considered as big brother in Asia and is also considered as soft super power, globally.

India has received and receiving assistance from global organisations like WHO, IMF, ADB etc . also we internally have multiple sources like PM national relief funds ,state disaster relief funds etc to tackle this situation. But there is a need for dedicated fund to tackle this unprecedented pandemic. So our honourable PM has established a new fund named PM CARES. This fund is completely dedicated to tackle covid-19 unlike PM NRF which is utilized for multiple disasters. This will encourage every citizen of India to participate in nation building and to realize their moral and social responsibility at this juncture. The fund will be utilized for providing economic assistance to victims, fight with the virus, research and development and for any other purpose to which are not inconsistent with fund objectives.

### We have provided a brief of donation to PM CARES below for your reference.
:----------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
What is PM CARES                                           |  It’s a fund created by Government of India and Chaired by Prime-Minister                     |
Who can donate to PM CARES                                 |  Any one (Individual, Company, NRIs, foreign residents etc.)                                  |
Minimum Amount of Donation                                 |  10 Rs   (no Maximum limit)                                                                   |                            
How our Donations are utilized                             |  Combating, Containing and relief measures against corona virus and any other future Pandemic |
Can we get any benefit out of our donations                |  Tax benefit under 80G for Non-corporates & Big Companies can also claim as CSR expenditure   |
What is that Tax Benefit                                   |  100% donation is deducted from Taxable income.                                               |
Last date for donating to PM CARES  to claim tax exemption |	30th June 2020.                                                                              |

So, I urge every citizen and organization in India to stay united give their helping hand during this tough times and come strong from the pandemic.

### Stay Home Stay Healthy - Save Nation

