---
layout: single
title:  "Gross Domestic Product"
date:   2020-05-16 20:29:04 +0530
categories: GeneralTopics
---

### GDP(Gross Domestic Product)

GDP (Gross Domestic Product): Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is the total monetary or market value of all the finished goods and services produced within a country's borders in a specific time period (usually within a year).GDP commonly used to measure the country’s economic growth. We can simply call it as ECONOMIC INDICATOR.

### Key Terms Of GDP

1.	Nominal(Normal)GDP: It’s GDP calculated with raw Data
2.	Real GDP : GDP calculated taking inflation factor i.e For comparison purpose it’ll allow previous year data with current data
3.	GDP Growth Rate: It is the Increase/ Decrease in GDP from Quarter to Quarter or Year to Year
4.	GDP per capita: It  is calculated by dividing nominal GDP by the total population of a country.It’s very useful to understand the income earning capacity of citizen

### *However there are different approaches to calculate GDP. Following three approaches are widely used all over the world*

1. Production(Output Approach):It is the total value of final output produced during the period in country. It consider only final product value there by ignoring value of interim product or services used to produce final product.
2. Expenditure (Spending Approach):  This approach has been adopted by many countries to calculate GDP.  It calculate GDP by summing up all final good /services purchased in economy
Commonly used formula for GDP = Private Consumption + Gross investment + Government investment + Government spending + (Exports – Imports)
3. Income Approach: This approach equates the total output of a nation to the total factor income received by residents or citizens of the nation. Simply it is the sum of the incomes generated by production subjects.(Wages, Rents, Royalty, Interest ,profit… etc)


### Key Points
1. GDP is important as it is snapshot of county’s economy. It is useful to understand country’s position in world’s economy
2. It is helpful to Central banks and policy makers to judge the economic  condition of country and helpful to make policies(Tax, Spending, Investment plans…etc)to boost the economy of nation
3. However GDP is criticized for ignoring black Economy, Unpaid services, Environmental costs..etc


### Statistics
1. As per IMF’s World Economic Outlook database ,October 2019.United States tops the list with $21.44 Trillion GDP(Nominal) where as India stood at 5th place with  $2.94 Trillion GDP(Nominal)
2. India's economy is seen growing by 5.0 percent in the 2019-20 fiscal year, the slowest pace since fiscal 2008-09 and significantly slower than a 6.8 percent expansion recorded in the same period last year, according to the First Advance Estimates, released by the federal Ministry of Statistics &; Programme Implementation. 


Author
### CA K.Marideswara Rao
