---
layout: single
title:  "ESOP-Employees Stock Options"
date:   2020-05-11 14:44:04 +0530
categories: FinancialReporting
---

Employee Stock Option Plans (ESOP) are options (not shares) offered by the companies to their employees to buy stocks of the company at below-market value rates at a later date on meeting certain conditions or completion of specified period in employment.
In simple terms, ESOP is an option given as a right and not an obligation to the employees of the Company to purchase the Company’s shares at a fixed price during a specified period of time.

The trend of giving ESOPs is more prevalent in start ups, which cannot afford to provide large compensation packages to its employees. By providing an employee with an ESOP, the employer gets the employee vested in the interests of the company and provides the employee with a sense of ownership, thereby, motivating the employee to perform a task with an actual vested interest in the company. 
 
Some companies provide ESOPs to employees which can be exercised on a future date, to provide incentive for a long term commitment by the employee to the company.

### Who are given ESOPs?

* To permanent employee of the company who has been working in India or outside India or 
* To permanent employee of a holding company or 
* To a director of the company, excluding an independent director who has been working in India or outside India or 
* To a director of the company other than an independent director, of a holding company.

### Who are excluded from receiving ESOPs?

* An employee who is a promoter or a person belonging to the promoter group;
* A director who either himself or through his relative or through any Body Corporate, directly or indirectly, holds more than ten percent of the outstanding equity shares of the company

### When ESOP is taxed?

There can be two stages with respect to levy of tax on shares allotted under ESOP:

* First levy occurs when shares are allotted to the employee after he has exercised his option on completion of the vesting period and
* Second levy occurs when the employee opts to sell the allotted shares under the ESOP.


Author

**CA.Vamsy Krishna**
